---
layout: post
title: "Le Menu"
subtitle: "php, javascript, HTML"
description: "May 2017"
category: "school"
author: "Val Chapman"
---
<!-- Start Writing Below in Markdown -->
<h2> SE 339: Software Architecture and Design </h2>

<h1> Outcomes: </h1>

* A business solution developed for restaurants to have their menu and ordering service linked directly to customer’s electronic device.

* Has User Interface to allow for customization of menus by restaurants.

* Allows for payment on the website using saved preferences.

* Learned modeling and design of software architecture at the high level.

<h1> Description Of Project: </h1>

<p> This course focus was on the design and architecture of a project. My team decided to develop a web integrated ordering
 system for dinning restaurants. The main goal of the project, was to design our project's architecture and then try to implement
 it, so that we could see areas our architecture could improve. Our project designed to allow for customers to have one account
 with out app that stored their payment information. Then restaurants could register with us, and set up their menus using our
 website. Then when customers came to their restaurant they could order through our website, and the restaurant would receive
 the order notice. Then the restaurant would prepare and deliver to the table. Finally customers would click pay on our device and the
 restaurant would receive the funds.</p>

<h1> Learning Outcomes: </h1>
<p> The goal of this project, was to learn how to develop an architecture for a project. My team developed use case diagrams,
 component diagrams, class diagrams and quality attributes. This was the first course I took at Iowa State to focus on Architecture
 and how it works in my projects. We were required to develop many diagrams before we started development of our project. This
 made the development process very smooth, because we had written out our use cases, requirements and components. This showed me
 the value of proper technical planning can smooth out the development process. </p>

<h1> What I liked most: </h1>
<p> This project proved valuable to me in the area of architecture development. Many of the projects I developed at Iowa State
 did not require any form of formal architecture design before the development started. This assignment proved the value
 of such design. This project was also an enjoyment, because this idea of a computer taking orders at restaurants is becoming
 more popular and implementing my own design of such a system allowed me to see what some of these companies may be going through
 in the form of design decisions.</p>